#🔥 **Libraries**
---

Ember makes use of a number of third-party libraries. This document gives a brief overview of the libraries used and their purpose.

## Google FlatBuffers

FlatBuffers is a serialisation library used Ember to generate the message format used for inter-server communication.

Network messages are defined in schemas located in *'spark-schemas/'*. The code required to use these messages in the server modules is generated by the FlatBuffers compiler (flatc). 

Code generation allows for quick iteration of the inter-server protocols, backwards and forwards compatibility, removes the possibility of mistakes caused by hand-writing serialisation code and allows for the protocol to be readily used in languages other than C++.

## Boost

Boost is a large collection of libraries that perform a wide range of tasks. Ember uses the following subset of Boost libraries:

#### Boost ASIO

ASIO is an ***AS***ynchronous ***I/O*** library that primarily deals with networking. 

All of Ember's networking, whether it's the client handling or Spark, our inter-server networking library, is layered on top of Boost ASIO.

#### Boost Endian

Endian is used for ensuring that network data is the correct endianness. For example, if Ember is compiled for a big-endian architecture, Boost Endian will ensure that network message fields are still encoded in little-endian (the encoding required by the game client).

#### Boost Locale

Locale is used for handling localisation issues, such as character names / chat messages in languages other than English.

#### Boost Filesystem

Filesystem is used for filesystem navigation and directory enumeration in various places.

#### Boost Program Options

Program Options is designed for reading configuration files and handling command-line arguments.

Ember's command-line argument and configuration file handling is done with this library.

#### Boost Serialisation

Boost Serialisation allows for easy serialisation/deserialisation of data structures for saving/loading to/from disk.

Ember uses serialisation for handling patch data caches.

#### Boost DLL ***(Currently unused!)***

Boost DLL is by Ember's plugin system for cross-platform handling of dynamic libraries.

#### Misc

A number of smaller, often header-only, Boost facilities are used. These include:
* Strong typedef
* Flatmap
* Lexical cast
* UUID generation
* Assert
* Optional
* Various algorithms

## Botan

Botan is a cryptography library used primarily by Ember's own SRP6 library for its big integer maths and hashing algorithms.

Botan implements a number of cryptographic algorithms, including the SRP6 variant, SRP6a. However, this implementation is not compatible with the game.

## PCRE

PCRE is a regular expression library used for handling character name blacklists and chat filtering.

PCRE was chosen on the basis of its performance and compatibility with regular expressions found in the game client (for the most part), as well its UTF-8 encoding handling.

Although C++'s standard regex facilities (std::regex) are used in some areas of the project, they are not used exclusively due to behavioural differences and compatibility issues experienced across different implementations.

PCRE is also used by the game itself, albeit a seemingly slightly modified version that accepts a different grammar.

## RapidXML

RapidXML is a light-weight, header-only, XML parser used only by the DBC code generation tool, 'dbcparser'. The DBC schemas are defined in XML.

## Google Test

Google Test, or gtest, is a unit testing library used for Ember's tests, located in the *'tests/'* directory.

## utf8cpp

utf8cpp is a light-weight, header-only, library for handling UTF-8 strings.

Ember uses utf8cpp to allow for correct handling of strings received from the game client.

## Zlib

Zlib is a compression library used for handling compressed messages received from the client, as well as for compressing larger messages sent to the client.

## MySQL Connector/C++

MySQLC/CPP is Oracle's C++ wrapper for its C-based MySQL client library. This library is only used if building the project with MySQL support.

## Google Breakpad ***(Currently unused!)***

Google Breakpad is a crash handling library used by Ember to produce stack traces for analysis. 

Breakpad also allows for submission of the generated stack traces to a Mozilla Socorro-based analysis server.

## ICU

ICU is unicode library used in conjunction with Boost Locale for handling localisation issues, such as the collation and correct validation of character names in various languages.